Update README.md (#1002)
Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime: README.md

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime?branch=main)

**Qiskit** is an open-source SDK for working with quantum computers at the level of extended quantum circuits, operators, and primitives.

**Qiskit IBM Runtime** is a new environment offered by IBM Quantum that streamlines quantum computations and provides optimial 

> implementations of the Qiskit Primitives `sampler` and `estimator` for IBM Quantum Hardware. It is designed to use additional classical compute resources 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implementations of the Qiskit primitives `sampler` and `estimator` for IBM Quantum hardware. It is designed to use additional classical compute resources 
```

> implementations of the Qiskit Primitives `sampler` and `estimator` for IBM Quantum Hardware. It is designed to use additional classical compute resources 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
implementations of the Qiskit primitives `Sampler` and `Estimator` for IBM Quantum hardware. It is designed to use additional classical compute resources 
```

> to execute quantum circuits with more efficiency on quantum processors by including near-time computations such as such as error supression and error mitigation. Examples of error suppression include dynamical decoupling and noise-aware compilation and error mitigation includes readout mitigation, zero noise extrapolation (ZNE) and probabilistic error cancellation (PEC).  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to execute quantum circuits with more efficiency on quantum processors by including near-time computations such as such as error supression and error mitigation. Examples of error suppression include dynamical decoupling, noise-aware compilation, error mitigation including readout mitigation, zero noise extrapolation (ZNE) and probabilistic error cancellation (PEC).  
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to execute quantum circuits with more efficiency on quantum processors by including near-time computations such as such as error supression and error mitigation. Examples of error _suppression_ include dynamical decoupling and noise-aware compilation. Examples of error _mitigation_ include readout mitigation, zero noise extrapolation (ZNE), and probabilistic error cancellation (PEC).  
```

> to execute quantum circuits with more efficiency on quantum processors by including near-time computations such as such as error supression and error mitigation. Examples of error suppression include dynamical decoupling and noise-aware compilation and error mitigation includes readout mitigation, zero noise extrapolation (ZNE) and probabilistic error cancellation (PEC).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to execute quantum circuits with more efficiency on quantum processors by including near-time computations such as error suppression and error mitigation. Examples of error suppression include dynamical decoupling, noise-aware compilation, error mitigation including readout mitigation, zero-noise extrapolation (ZNE), and probabilistic error cancellation (PEC). 
```

> Using the runtime service, for example, a research team at IBM Quantum was able to achieve 120x speed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the runtime service, for example, a research team at IBM Quantum was able to achieve a 120x speedup
```

> Using the runtime service, for example, a research team at IBM Quantum was able to achieve 120x speed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the runtime service, for example, a research team at IBM Quantum was able to achieve 120x speedup 
```

> up in their lithium hydride simulation. For more information, see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in their lithium hydride simulation. For more information, see the
```

> up in their lithium hydride simulation. For more information, see the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 in their lithium hydride simulation. For more information, see the
```

[IBM Research blog](https://research.ibm.com/blog/120x-quantum-speedup).

> This module provides the interface to access Qiskit Runtime Service on the IBM Quantum Platform or the IBM Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module provides the interface to access the Qiskit Runtime service on IBM Quantum Platform or IBM Cloud.
```

> This module provides the interface to access Qiskit Runtime Service on the IBM Quantum Platform or the IBM Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This module provides the interface to access the Qiskit Runtime Service on the IBM Quantum Platform or IBM Cloud.
```

## Account Setup

> ### Qiskit Runtime Service on IBM Quantum Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Qiskit Runtime service on IBM Quantum Platform
```

> The default method for using the runtime service is the IBM Quantum Platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default method for using the runtime service is IBM Quantum Platform. 
```

> The default method for using the runtime service is the IBM Quantum Platform. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default method for using the runtime service is IBM Quantum Platform. 
```

You will need your IBM Quantum API token to authenticate with the runtime service:

1. Create an IBM Quantum account or log in to your existing account by visiting the [IBM Quantum login page].

1. Copy (and optionally regenerate) your API token from your
   [IBM Quantum account page].

> ### Qiskit Runtime Service on IBM Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Qiskit Runtime service on IBM Cloud
```

> The runtime services is now part of the IBM Quantum Services on IBM Cloud. To use this service, you'll

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The runtime service is now part of the IBM Quantum Services on IBM Cloud. To use this service, you'll
```

need to create an IBM Cloud account and a quantum service instance.
[This guide](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/quantum-computing?topic=quantum-computing-get-started)

> contains step-by-step instructions on setting this up, including directions to find your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains step-by-step instructions, including how to find your
```

```python
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Options, Sampler
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

service = QiskitRuntimeService()
options = Options(optimization_level=1)
options.execution.shots = 1024  # Options can be set using auto-complete.

# 1. A quantum circuit for preparing the quantum state (|00> + |11>)/rt{2}
bell = QuantumCircuit(2)
bell.h(0)
bell.cx(0, 1)

# 2. Map the qubits to a classical register in ascending order
bell.measure_all()

# 3. Execute using the Sampler primitive 
backend = service.get_backend('ibmq_qasm_simulator')
sampler = Sampler(backend=backend, options=options)
job = sampler.run(circuits=bell)
print(f"Job ID is {job.job_id()}")
print(f"Job result is {job.result()}")
```

### Estimator

This is a primitive that takes circuits and observables to evaluate expectation values and variances for a given parameter input. This primitive allows users to efficiently calculate and interpret expectation values of quantum operators required for many algorithms.

To invoke the `Estimator` primitive:

```python
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Options, Estimator
from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp

> from qiskit.circuit import Parameter

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
from qiskit.circuit import Parameter
import numpy as np
```

## Session

In many algorithms and applications, an Estimator needs to be called iteratively without incurring queuing delays on each iteration. To solve this, the IBM Runtime service provides a **Session**. A session starts when the first job within the session is started, and subsequent jobs within the session are prioritized by the scheduler.

You can use the [`qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session`](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/blob/main/qiskit_ibm_runtime/session.py) class to start a
session. Consider the same example above and try to find the optimal `theta`. The following example uses the [golden search method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden-section_search) to iteratively find the optimal theta that maximizes the observable. 

To invoke the `Estimator` primitive within a session:

```python
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Session, Options, Estimator
from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp

> from qiskit.circuit import Parameter

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
from qiskit.circuit import Parameter
import numpy as np
```

service = QiskitRuntimeService()
options = Options(optimization_level=1)
options.execution.shots = 1024  # Options can be set using auto-complete.

# 1. A quantum circuit for preparing the quantum state (|000> + e^{itheta} |111>)/rt{2}
theta = Parameter('θ')
qc_example = QuantumCircuit(3)
qc_example.h(0) # generate superpostion
qc_example.p(theta,0) # add quantum phase

> qc_example.cx(0,1) # condition 1st qubit on 0th qubit
> qc_example.cx(0,2) # condition 2nd qubit on 0th qubit

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
qc_example.cx(0, 1) # condition 1st qubit on 0th qubit
qc_example.cx(0, 2) # condition 2nd qubit on 0th qubit
```

ibm_quantum_service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_quantum", token="MY_IBM_QUANTUM_TOKEN")
```

## Primitives

> All quantum applications and algorithms at the fundamental level are built using three steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All quantum applications and algorithms at the fundamental level are built using three steps:
```

> All quantum applications and algorithms at the fundamental level are built using three steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All quantum applications and algorithms at the fundamental level are built using three steps:
```

1. Choose a quantum circuit to encode the quantum state.

> 2. Define the observable to be measured or the classical register to be measured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Define the observable to be measured or the classical register to be measured.
```

> 2. Define the observable to be measured or the classical register to be measured

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Define the observable or the classical register to be measured.
```

> 4. Execute the quantum circuits using a primitive functions (estimator or sampler). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Execute the quantum circuits using a primitive function (Estimator or Sampler). 
```

> 4. Execute the quantum circuits using a primitive functions (estimator or sampler). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Execute the quantum circuits by using a primitive (Estimator or Sampler). 
```

> **Primitives** are base level functions that serve as building blocks for many quantum algorithms and applications. The [primitive interfaces](https://qiskit.org/documentation/apidoc/primitives.html) are defined in Qiskit Terra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Primitives** are base-level functions that serve as building blocks for many quantum algorithms and applications. The [primitive interfaces](https://qiskit.org/documentation/apidoc/primitives.html) are defined in Qiskit Terra.
```

> **Primitives** are base level functions that serve as building blocks for many quantum algorithms and applications. The [primitive interfaces](https://qiskit.org/documentation/apidoc/primitives.html) are defined in Qiskit Terra.

Reviewer 2: Can we get rid of this reference to Terra?

> The IBM runtime service offers these primitives with additional features, such as built-in error suppression and mitigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IBM Runtime Service offers these primitives with additional features, such as built-in error suppression and mitigation.
```

There are several different options you can specify when calling the primitives. See [`qiskit_ibm_runtime.Options`](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/blob/main/qiskit_ibm_runtime/options.py#L103) class for more information.

### Sampler

> This is a primitive that takes a list of user circuits (including measurements) as an input and generates an error-mitigated readout of quasi-probability distribution. This provides users a way to better evaluate shot results using error mitigation and enables them to more efficiently evaluate the possibility of multiple relevant data points in the context of destructive interference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a primitive that takes a list of user circuits (including measurements) as an input and generates an error-mitigated readout of a quasi-probability distribution. This provides users a way to better evaluate shot results using error mitigation and enables them to more efficiently evaluate the possibility of multiple relevant data points in the context of destructive interference.
```

> This is a primitive that takes a list of user circuits (including measurements) as an input and generates an error-mitigated readout of quasi-probability distribution. This provides users a way to better evaluate shot results using error mitigation and enables them to more efficiently evaluate the possibility of multiple relevant data points in the context of destructive interference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a primitive that takes a list of user circuits (including measurements) as an input and generates an error-mitigated readout of quasi-probability distributions. This provides users a way to better evaluate shot results using error mitigation and enables them to more efficiently evaluate the possibility of multiple relevant data points in the context of destructive interference.
```

To invoke the `Sampler` primitive

```python
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService, Options, Sampler
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

service = QiskitRuntimeService()
options = Options(optimization_level=1)
options.execution.shots = 1024  # Options can be set using auto-complete.

# 1. A quantum circuit for preparing the quantum state (|00> + |11>)/rt{2}
bell = QuantumCircuit(2)
bell.h(0)
bell.cx(0, 1)

# 2. Map the qubits to a classical register in ascending order
bell.measure_all()

# 3. Execute using the Sampler primitive 
backend = service.get_backend('ibmq_qasm_simulator')
sampler = Sampler(backend=backend, options=options)
job = sampler.run(circuits=bell)
print(f"Job ID is {job.job_id()}")
print(f"Job result is {job.result()}")
```

### Estimator

> This is a primitive that takes a circuits and observables to evaluate expectation values and variances for a given parameter input. This primitive allows users to efficiently calculate and interpret expectation values of quantum operators required for many algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a primitive that takes circuits and observables to evaluate expectation values and variances for a given parameter input. This primitive allows users to efficiently calculate and interpret expectation values of quantum operators required for many algorithms.
```

from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp
from qiskit.circuit import Parameter

service = QiskitRuntimeService()
options = Options(optimization_level=1)
options.execution.shots = 1024  # Options can be set using auto-complete.

# 1. A quantum circuit for preparing the quantum state (|000> + e^{itheta} |111>)/rt{2}
theta = Parameter('θ')
qc_example = QuantumCircuit(3)
qc_example.h(0) # generate superpostion
qc_example.p(theta,0) # add quantum phase
qc_example.cx(0,1) # condition 1st qubit on 0th qubit
qc_example.cx(0,2) # condition 2nd qubit on 0th qubit

# 2. the observable to be measured
M1 = SparsePauliOp.from_list([("XXY", 1), ("XYX", 1), ("YXX", 1), ("YYY", -1)])

# batch of theta parameters to be executed 
points = 50
theta1 = []
for x in range(points):
    theta = [x*2.0*np.pi/50]
    theta1.append(theta)

# 3. Execute using the Estimator primitive 
backend = service.get_backend('ibmq_qasm_simulator')
estimator = Estimator(backend, options=options)
job = estimator.run(circuits=[qc_example]*points, observables=[M1]*points, parameter_values=theta1)
print(f"Job ID is {job.job_id()}")
print(f"Job result is {job.result().values}")
```

> This code batches together 50 parameters to be executed in a single job and if a user wanted to find the `theta` which optimized the observable they could plot and observed it occurs at `theta=np.pi/2`. For speed we recomend batching results together but depending on your access there will be limits in the number of cirucits, objects and parameters that can be sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code batches together 50 parameters to be executed in a single job. If a user wanted to find the `theta` that optimized the observable, they could plot and observe it occurs at `theta=np.pi/2`. For speed we recommend batching results together (note that depending on your access, there may be limits on the number of circuits, objects, and parameters that you can send.
```

> This code batches together 50 parameters to be executed in a single job and if a user wanted to find the `theta` which optimized the observable they could plot and observed it occurs at `theta=np.pi/2`. For speed we recomend batching results together but depending on your access there will be limits in the number of cirucits, objects and parameters that can be sent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This code batches together 50 parameters to be executed in a single job. If a user wanted to find the `theta` that optimized the observable, they could plot it and observe that it occurs at `theta=np.pi/2`. For speed we recommend batching results together, but depending on your access there are limits in the number of circuits, objects, and parameters that can be sent.
```

## Session

> In many algorithms and applications an estimator needs to be called iteratively without incurring queuing delays on each iteration. To solved this the IBM Runtime Service provides a **Session**. A session is started when the first job within the session is started, and subsequent jobs within the session are prioritized by the scheduler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In many algorithms and applications an estimator needs to be called iteratively without incurring queuing delays on each iteration. To solve this the IBM Runtime Service provides a **Session**. A session is started when the first job within the session is started, and subsequent jobs within the session are prioritized by the scheduler.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In many algorithms and applications, an estimator needs to be called iteratively without incurring queuing delays on each iteration. To solve this, the IBM Runtime Service provides a **session**. A session is started when the first job within the session starts, and subsequent jobs within the session are prioritized by the scheduler.
```

> In many algorithms and applications an estimator needs to be called iteratively without incurring queuing delays on each iteration. To solved this the IBM Runtime Service provides a **Session**. A session is started when the first job within the session is started, and subsequent jobs within the session are prioritized by the scheduler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In many algorithms and applications, an Estimator needs to be called iteratively without incurring queuing delays on each iteration. To solve this, the IBM Runtime Service provides a **Session**. A session is started when the first job within the session is started, and subsequent jobs within the session are prioritized by the scheduler.
```

You can use the [`qiskit_ibm_runtime.Session`](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime/blob/main/qiskit_ibm_runtime/session.py) class to start a

> session. Considering the same example above and trying to find the optimal `theta` the following example uses the [golden search method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden-section_search) to iteratively find the optimial theta which maximizes the observable. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
session. Considering the same example above and trying to find the optimal `theta` the following example uses the [golden search method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden-section_search) to iteratively find the optimal theta which maximizes the observable. 
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
session. Considering the same example above and trying to find the optimal `theta` the following example uses the [golden search method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden-section_search) to iteratively find the optimal theta that maximizes the observable. 
```

> session. Considering the same example above and trying to find the optimal `theta` the following example uses the [golden search method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden-section_search) to iteratively find the optimial theta which maximizes the observable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
session. Considering the same example above, try to find the optimal `theta`. The following example uses the [golden search method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden-section_search) to iteratively find the optimal theta that maximizes the observable. 
```

qc_example.p(theta,0) # add quantum phase
qc_example.cx(0,1) # condition 1st qubit on 0th qubit
qc_example.cx(0,2) # condition 2nd qubit on 0th qubit

# 2. the observable to be measured
M1 = SparsePauliOp.from_list([("XXY", 1), ("XYX", 1), ("YXX", 1), ("YYY", -1)])

gr = (np.sqrt(5) + 1) / 2 # golden ratio   
thetaa = 0 # lower range of theta
thetab = 2*np.pi # upper range of theta
tol = 1e-1 # tol 

# 3. Execute iteratively using the Estimator primitive 
with Session(service=service, backend="ibmq_qasm_simulator") as session:
    estimator = Estimator(session=session, options=options)
    #next test range 
    thetac = thetab - (thetab - thetaa) / gr
    thetad = thetaa + (thetab - thetaa) / gr
    while abs(thetab - thetaa) > tol:
        print(f"max value of M1 is in the range theta = {[thetaa, thetab]}")
        job = estimator.run(circuits=[qc_example]*2, observables=[M1]*2, parameter_values=[[thetac],[thetad]])
        test =job.result().values
        if test[0] > test[1]:
            thetab = thetad
        else:
            thetaa = thetac
        thetac = thetab - (thetab - thetaa) / gr
        thetad = thetaa + (thetab - thetaa) / gr
        

>     # Final Job to evaluate estimator at mid point found using golden search method 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Final job to evaluate estimator at midpoint found using golden search method 
```

    theta_mid = (thetab + thetaa) / 2
    job = estimator.run(circuits=qc_example, observables=M1, parameter_values=theta_mid)
    print(f"Session ID is {session.session_id}")
    print(f"Final Job ID is {job.job_id()}")
    print(f"Job result is {job.result().values} at theta = {theta_mid}")
```

> This code returns `Job result is [4.] at theta = 1.575674623307102` using only 9 iterations. This is a very powerful extensions to the primitives however beware as using too much code between itertive calls can lock the QPU and use excessive QPU time which is expensive. We recomend only using the session when needed. The sampler can also be used within a session however there are not any well define examples for this. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This code returns `Job result is [4.] at theta = 1.575674623307102` using only 9 iterations. This is a very powerful extension to the primitives however beware as using too much code between itertive calls can lock the QPU and use excessive QPU time which is expensive. We recomend only using the session when needed. The sampler can also be used within a session however there are not any well define examples for this. 
```

> This code returns `Job result is [4.] at theta = 1.575674623307102` using only 9 iterations. This is a very powerful extensions to the primitives however beware as using too much code between itertive calls can lock the QPU and use excessive QPU time which is expensive. We recomend only using the session when needed. The sampler can also be used within a session however there are not any well define examples for this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code returns `Job result is [4.] at theta = 1.575674623307102` using only 9 iterations. This is a very powerful extension to the primitives; however, beware of using too much code between iterative calls, since that can lock the QPU and use excessive QPU time, which is expensive. We recommend only using the session when needed. The Sampler can also be used within a session, but there are not any well-defined examples for this. 
```

> This code returns `Job result is [4.] at theta = 1.575674623307102` using only 9 iterations. This is a very powerful extensions to the primitives however beware as using too much code between itertive calls can lock the QPU and use excessive QPU time which is expensive. We recomend only using the session when needed. The sampler can also be used within a session however there are not any well define examples for this. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This code returns `Job result is [4.] at theta = 1.575674623307102` using only nine iterations. This is a very powerful extension to the primitives. However, using too much code between iterative calls can lock the QPU and use excessive QPU time, which is expensive. We recommend only using sessions when needed. The Sampler can also be used within a session. However, there are not any well define examples for this. 
```
